docs/submit-apple-podcasts.md, before:

# Submitting Cariboo Signals to Apple Podcasts

Step-by-step guide for getting the podcast listed on Apple Podcasts and other directories.

## Pre-submission checklist

Before submitting, verify these requirements are met:

### 1. Cover art (ACTION REQUIRED)

Apple requires cover art between **1400x1400** and **3000x3000** pixels.

Current: `cariboo-signals.png` is **1024x1024** — this will be rejected.

To fix:
- Regenerate the cover art at 3000x3000 pixels (PNG or JPEG, RGB color space)
- Replace `cariboo-signals.png` in the repo root
- The RSS feed already references this file automatically

### 2. Contact email (ACTION REQUIRED)

The RSS feed currently uses a placeholder email: `podcast@example.com`

To fix:
- Edit `config/podcast.json`
- Change the `"email"` field to a real email address
- This email is used by Apple to contact the podcast owner about issues

### 3. RSS feed URL

Your feed URL is:
```
https://zirnhelt.github.io/curated-podcast-generator/podcast-feed.xml
```

This is publicly accessible and auto-updated daily by GitHub Actions.

### 4. Validate the feed

Run the validation script to check Apple compliance:

```bash
python3 validate_feed.py
```

This checks for all required and recommended iTunes tags, cover art dimensions, and common issues.

You can also validate with Apple's tool after submission at [Podcasts Connect](https://podcastsconnect.apple.com).

## Submitting to Apple Podcasts

1. **Go to** [podcastsconnect.apple.com](https://podcastsconnect.apple.com)
2. **Sign in** with your Apple ID (create one if needed — it's free)
3. **Click** the **+** button or "Add a Show"
4. **Paste** your RSS feed URL:
   ```
   https://zirnhelt.github.io/curated-podcast-generator/podcast-feed.xml
   ```
5. **Review** the preview — Apple will parse your feed and show:
   - Show title (Cariboo Signals)
   - Cover art
   - Episode list
   - Category (Technology, Society & Culture)
6. **Submit** for review

### What happens next

- Apple reviews new podcasts manually (typically 1-5 business days)
- You'll receive an email at the address in your RSS feed when approved
- Once approved, new episodes appear automatically — Apple polls your RSS feed periodically
- No ongoing action needed; your daily GitHub Actions pipeline handles everything

### If rejected

Common rejection reasons and fixes:
- **Cover art too small**: Regenerate at 1400x1400 or larger
- **Placeholder email**: Update `config/podcast.json` with a real email
- **Missing episodes**: Ensure at least one episode has a valid `<enclosure>` audio URL
- **Audio not accessible**: Verify `https://podcast.cariboosignals.ca/podcasts/` URLs are publicly reachable

## Submitting to other directories

Once your feed is ready for Apple, it meets the requirements for all major directories:

| Directory | URL | Notes |
|-----------|-----|-------|
| **Spotify** | [podcasters.spotify.com](https://podcasters.spotify.com) | Free, paste RSS URL |
| **Amazon Music** | [music.amazon.com/podcasters](https://music.amazon.com/podcasters) | Free, paste RSS URL |
| **Pocket Casts** | [pocketcasts.com/submit](https://pocketcasts.com/submit) | Free, paste RSS URL |
| **Google Podcasts** | Automatic | Indexed from RSS if publicly accessible |
| **Podcast Index** | [podcastindex.org/add](https://podcastindex.org/add) | Free, open index |

All directories auto-poll your RSS feed after the initial submission. No ongoing maintenance required.

## RSS feed technical details

The feed is generated by `podcast_generator.py` in the `generate_podcast_rss_feed()` function (line ~1180). It includes:

- All required Apple iTunes tags (`itunes:author`, `itunes:image`, `itunes:category`, `itunes:explicit`, `itunes:type`)
- Episode-level tags (`itunes:duration`, `itunes:explicit`, `guid`)
- Detailed episode descriptions with cited sources and credits
- Last 10 episodes (auto-rotated daily)

### Updating podcast metadata

All metadata comes from `config/podcast.json`:
- `title`, `subtitle`, `summary`, `description` — show-level text
- `author` — displayed as the podcast author
- `email` — Apple contact email (in `itunes:owner`)
- `categories` — Apple Podcasts categories
- `cover_image` — filename of cover art (relative to site root)
- `audio_base_url` — CDN base URL for audio files (Cloudflare R2)

Commit message:

Use Cloudflare domain for feed URL and podcast site URL
Point url, feed_url, and audio_base_url to podcast.cariboosignals.ca
so the RSS feed submitted to Apple Podcasts uses the custom domain
instead of GitHub Pages. The feed is already synced to R2 by the
daily pipeline.

https://claude.ai/code/session_01E4aopXHTxxZvYoRHAYefHU

docs/submit-apple-podcasts.md, after:

# Submitting Cariboo Signals to Apple Podcasts

Step-by-step guide for getting the podcast listed on Apple Podcasts and other directories.

## Pre-submission checklist

Before submitting, verify these requirements are met:

### 1. Cover art

Apple requires cover art between **1400x1400** and **3000x3000** pixels.

Current: `cariboo-signals.png` is **1400x1400** — meets the minimum.

To update:
- Replace `cariboo-signals.png` in the repo root (PNG or JPEG, RGB color space, square)
- The RSS feed references this file automatically

### 2. Contact email

The RSS feed owner email is set to `feedback@cariboosignals.ca` in `config/podcast.json`.

### 3. RSS feed URL

Your feed URL is:
```
https://podcast.cariboosignals.ca/podcast-feed.xml
```

This is hosted on Cloudflare R2 and auto-updated daily by GitHub Actions.

### 4. Validate the feed

Run the validation script to check Apple compliance:

```bash
python3 validate_feed.py
```

This checks for all required and recommended iTunes tags, cover art dimensions, and common issues.

You can also validate with Apple's tool after submission at [Podcasts Connect](https://podcastsconnect.apple.com).

## Submitting to Apple Podcasts

1. **Go to** [podcastsconnect.apple.com](https://podcastsconnect.apple.com)
2. **Sign in** with your Apple ID (create one if needed — it's free)
3. **Click** the **+** button or "Add a Show"
4. **Paste** your RSS feed URL:
   ```
   https://podcast.cariboosignals.ca/podcast-feed.xml
   ```
5. **Review** the preview — Apple will parse your feed and show:
   - Show title (Cariboo Signals)
   - Cover art
   - Episode list
   - Category (Technology, Society & Culture)
6. **Submit** for review

### What happens next

- Apple reviews new podcasts manually (typically 1-5 business days)
- You'll receive an email at the address in your RSS feed when approved
- Once approved, new episodes appear automatically — Apple polls your RSS feed periodically
- No ongoing action needed; your daily GitHub Actions pipeline handles everything

### If rejected

Common rejection reasons and fixes:
- **Cover art too small**: Regenerate at 1400x1400 or larger
- **Placeholder email**: Update `config/podcast.json` with a real email
- **Missing episodes**: Ensure at least one episode has a valid `<enclosure>` audio URL
- **Audio not accessible**: Verify `https://podcast.cariboosignals.ca/podcasts/` URLs are publicly reachable

## Submitting to other directories

Once your feed is ready for Apple, it meets the requirements for all major directories:

| Directory | URL | Notes |
|-----------|-----|-------|
| **Spotify** | [podcasters.spotify.com](https://podcasters.spotify.com) | Free, paste RSS URL |
| **Amazon Music** | [music.amazon.com/podcasters](https://music.amazon.com/podcasters) | Free, paste RSS URL |
| **Pocket Casts** | [pocketcasts.com/submit](https://pocketcasts.com/submit) | Free, paste RSS URL |
| **Google Podcasts** | Automatic | Indexed from RSS if publicly accessible |
| **Podcast Index** | [podcastindex.org/add](https://podcastindex.org/add) | Free, open index |

All directories auto-poll your RSS feed after the initial submission. No ongoing maintenance required.

## RSS feed technical details

The feed is generated by `podcast_generator.py` in the `generate_podcast_rss_feed()` function (line ~1180). It includes:

- All required Apple iTunes tags (`itunes:author`, `itunes:image`, `itunes:category`, `itunes:explicit`, `itunes:type`)
- Episode-level tags (`itunes:duration`, `itunes:explicit`, `guid`)
- Detailed episode descriptions with cited sources and credits
- Last 10 episodes (auto-rotated daily)

### Updating podcast metadata

All metadata comes from `config/podcast.json`:
- `title`, `subtitle`, `summary`, `description` — show-level text
- `author` — displayed as the podcast author
- `email` — Apple contact email (in `itunes:owner`)
- `categories` — Apple Podcasts categories
- `cover_image` — filename of cover art (relative to site root)
- `audio_base_url` — CDN base URL for audio files (Cloudflare R2)
